CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

This page is dedicated to outline where to start with
questions, concerns, feature requests, or desires to contribute.

## Table of Contents

- [Cloning the Repository](#cloning-the-repository)
- [Reporting Issues](#reporting-issues)
- [Development Practices](#development-practices)

--------------

## Cloning the Repository

The source repository can be cloned from
<https://github.com/trpubins/Gifter>

--------------

## Reporting Issues

Follow the practices outlined here when reporting issues
related to this repository.

### Bug Reporting

If any bugs, crashes, or concerning quirks are discovered while
using code distributed here, report it on the [issues
page](https://github.com/trpubins/Gifter/issues) with an appropriate
label so it can be promptly addressed. When reporting an issue, be
overly descriptive so that it may be reproduced. Whenever possible,
provide tracebacks, screenshots, and sample files.

### Feature Requests

Users are encouraged to submit ideas for improvements to the code
base. Create an issue on the [issues
page](https://github.com/trpubins/Gifter/issues) with a
*feature-request* label to suggest an improvement. Use a descriptive
title and provide ample background information to help the developers
implement that functionality. The issue thread will be used as a place
to discuss and provide feedback.

--------------

## Development Practices

This section provides a guide to conducting development in the
repository. Follow the practices outlined here when contributing
directly to this repository.

### Branching Model

This project has a branching model that enables rapid development of
features without sacrificing stability, and closely follows the [Trunk
Based Development](https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com/) approach.

The primary features of this branching model are:

- The `main` branch is the main development branch. All features,
  patches, and other branches should be merged here. Ideally, this
  branch is functionally stable at every commit.
- There may be one or simultaneously many active branches at any given
  time. Branches should pass all applicable tests before being merged
  into `main` as changes might introduce unintended side-effects or bugs.

### Branch Naming Conventions

To streamline development, the following are requirements for naming
branches. These requirements help the core developers know what kind of
changes any given branch is introducing before looking at the code.

- `fix/`: any bug fixes, patches, or experimental changes that are
   minor
- `feat/`: any changes that introduce a new feature or significant
   addition
- `junk/`: for any experimental changes that can be deleted if gone
   stale
- `maint/`: for general maintenance of the repository or CI routines
- `doc/`: for any changes only pertaining to documentation
- `no-ci/`: for low impact activity that should NOT trigger the CI
   routines
- `testing/`: improvements or changes to testing
- `release/`: changes related to a software release or tag
- `breaking-change/`: changes that break backward compatibility

### Testing

Test changes locally before creating a pull request. Additionally,
add new unit tests as new funcitonality is added. Any existing
unit tests will be executed after all pull requests.

### Creating a New Pull Request

Once a branch has been tested locally, merge into `main` by creating
a new [pull request](https://github.com/trpubins/Gifter/pulls).

Provide a succinct title and summarize a description of the changes.
ALWAYS "Squash and Merge" when merging into `main` to ensure its
stability at every commit.

Commit message:

Refer to PyVista contributing guidelines.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

This page is dedicated to outline where to start with
questions, concerns, feature requests, or desires to contribute.

These guidelines were inspired by
[PyVista](https://github.com/pyvista/pyvista/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.rst).

## Table of Contents

- [Cloning the Repository](#cloning-the-repository)
- [Reporting Issues](#reporting-issues)
- [Development Practices](#development-practices)

--------------

## Cloning the Repository

The source repository can be cloned from
<https://github.com/trpubins/Gifter>

--------------

## Reporting Issues

Follow the practices outlined here when reporting issues
related to this repository.

### Bug Reporting

If any bugs, crashes, or concerning quirks are discovered while
using code distributed here, report it on the [issues
page](https://github.com/trpubins/Gifter/issues) with an appropriate
label so it can be promptly addressed. When reporting an issue, be
overly descriptive so that it may be reproduced. Whenever possible,
provide tracebacks, screenshots, and sample files.

### Feature Requests

Users are encouraged to submit ideas for improvements to the code
base. Create an issue on the [issues
page](https://github.com/trpubins/Gifter/issues) with a
*feature-request* label to suggest an improvement. Use a descriptive
title and provide ample background information to help the developers
implement that functionality. The issue thread will be used as a place
to discuss and provide feedback.

--------------

## Development Practices

This section provides a guide to conducting development in the
repository. Follow the practices outlined here when contributing
directly to this repository.

### Branching Model

This project has a branching model that enables rapid development of
features without sacrificing stability, and closely follows the [Trunk
Based Development](https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com/) approach.

The primary features of this branching model are:

- The `main` branch is the main development branch. All features,
  patches, and other branches should be merged here. Ideally, this
  branch is functionally stable at every commit.
- There may be one or simultaneously many active branches at any given
  time. Branches should pass all applicable tests before being merged
  into `main` as changes might introduce unintended side-effects or bugs.

### Branch Naming Conventions

To streamline development, the following are requirements for naming
branches. These requirements help the core developers know what kind of
changes any given branch is introducing before looking at the code.

- `fix/`: any bug fixes, patches, or experimental changes that are
   minor
- `feat/`: any changes that introduce a new feature or significant
   addition
- `junk/`: for any experimental changes that can be deleted if gone
   stale
- `maint/`: for general maintenance of the repository or CI routines
- `doc/`: for any changes only pertaining to documentation
- `no-ci/`: for low impact activity that should NOT trigger the CI
   routines
- `testing/`: improvements or changes to testing
- `release/`: changes related to a software release or tag
- `breaking-change/`: changes that break backward compatibility

### Testing

Test changes locally before creating a pull request. Additionally,
add new unit tests as new funcitonality is added. Any existing
unit tests will be executed after all pull requests.

### Creating a New Pull Request

Once a branch has been tested locally, merge into `main` by creating
a new [pull request](https://github.com/trpubins/Gifter/pulls). Provide
a succinct title and summarize a description of the changes.

**ALWAYS** "Squash and Merge" when merging into `main` to ensure its
stability at every commit.
